the last thing I want to talk about
today and something that'll be really
important for project zero and indeed
your entire future programming career is
using libraries so one of the most
amazing things about computer science is
that any piece of code I write can be
instantly sent to you and reused and
doesn't matter how complicated it is I
can write a function that for example
takes the human genome and simulates
what the person's face looks like in
theory that might be possible
and once I wrote it I could just send
that to the library and you could just
use it as a function and whatever you
wanted to use it for right and that's
something that is really one of the most
amazing and cool things about being a
programmer right anything anybody builds
it's yours so you should learn how to
take advantage all the libraries people
out there have written so there's tons
of things out there that people have
written and in this class we're gonna
give you everything you need we're not
gonna ask you to go find the appropriate
library on the internet and use it and
in fact we're gonna ask that you don't
so the libraries we're gonna use include
all those things like the math the built
in libraries so the math class can
compute square roots the integer class
can convert strings to integers and so
forth and we're also going to use
another big library known as the
Princeton standard library I'll describe
in a moment now we may add additional
libraries for the later projects well
have at least these I was a programmer
you really want to use what's out there
because it'll first save you the trouble
of writing code but secondly that it
avoids you introducing any kind of weird
bugs so there's all kinds of stories of
people trying to write their own
cryptographic libraries because they
think okay well you know I'm writing
this program so really I ought to be the
one writing the key exchange code or
whatever it may be and you get some tiny
little details so I'm set a little
detail and it really compromises your
security so if you use libraries that
have already been tested and used by
tons of people out there in the world
chances are it's gonna be less buggy I
mean might not be you know there have
been major bugs and widely used pieces
of software but chances are you will do
a worse job now the downside is you're
gonna have to spend some time learning
how each of these
we're his works right so it's sort of
like the equivalent of when you first
start programming it's so tempting to
write everything yourself and I kind of
liken it to imagine you have a giant
chunk of wood and you want to cut it in
half and you have a saw so you could
mean you know how saw works you go like
this and it gets chopped in half and
even if it takes you two hours or two
days you know you can get there now the
better way to chop giant pieces of wood
is probably to use a big machine like
some kind of giant say you know a table
saw or whatever but that means you have
to learn how the tool works and
sometimes that could be really annoying
now what I advise you to do is avoid the
temptation to hacksaw everything and to
think smart wherever you can and often
that process involves it using a light
ray okay so if you want to use a library
you have to know that the library exists
and you have to know how it works so how
do you use one once you find one well
one way is to find a tutorial you'll
find on the web or on YouTube people
have videos for commonly used libraries
like let's say the jingle library if
you're doing web programming right so
out there there's I bet you dozens of
videos on YouTube that explain how it
works that's great now sometimes you
just want to look at the documentation
and see how it works in a way that the
designers the library I thought was most
important and one of the things that's
really nice about Java is that the
library documentation is often quite
good so we had here converting string to
integer in Java but we can actually look
up the official documentation for the
integer class it's actually usually
pretty easy to find if I just do Java
integer and in this case takes me
straight to this page and so what I add
here is if we look in this file it lists
everything you might want to know about
the integer class it's all of the
interfaces all of the methods that you
might call and so if we look at this
parson method we can see that it tells
us what it does Pat parses the string
argument as a sign
decimal integer so it tells you
everything you want to know and maybe
some extra stuff that you don't really
care about or quite understand now one
thing that's fun about this
documentation is even just with what we
know so far just a couple of days of
videos you can already read this I mean
that says it's a public method we know
that public seems to be associated with
methods somehow static well it's a
static method so you're using integer
dot not like a specific integer it
returns an int it's called par set and
it takes a string argument and you know
we don't know what that means quite yet
okay so what I'm gonna say
here we're what I'm saying here is just
that the documentation is often quite
good and I encourage you to check it out
because sometimes the concise answer in
the library is better than trying to dig
through a bunch of tutorials on web and
then lastly looking at example code
snippets that use a particular library
is a great technique and that for
example is why I love Stack Overflow
because here look a code snippet so
whenever you use those I do remind you
to cite your sources just in line with
good practices as any kind of creative
person you should always be citing their
sources and later we'll talk a little
bit more about the official rules for
citing things in this course so in 61v
again we're giving you all the libraries
you need you don't need to get any new
ones and in fact we asked you not to
because it'll make the grater get
confused so for example if we have not
given you the Apache Commons library
don't go use that okay this right here
is just a picture of what the integer
documentation looks like but you know
this is a video so who cares but if
you're a slide reader and then lastly I
want to let you know a little bit more
about the Princeton standard library so
used to teach at Princeton and one of my
colleagues Kevin Wayne built this
beautiful library for Java that does all
kinds of awesome stuff like getting
input from the user reading from files
drawing sound and all of it is a really
nice interface so we're gonna make heavy
use of it especially in the early parts
of the course later on we'll kind of
wean ourselves off of it because it's an
standard library but early on you'll
find it's really useful and especially
for project zero you're going to use
these heavily because we'll be drawing
you know planets and all kinds of fun
stuff so next move for you is to go
check out project zero get started and
get cracking and really start cementing
all the knowledge we have from the video
so far and I encourage you to before you
move on to the next videos really try
and make some major headway on project
zero because that's where you're gonna
learn quite a lot it's actually trying
to build things so that's it for today
and I'll see you next time